# What is chain controlling?

Chain controlling is a way that you can create a linkage of actions between devices and their data.

Suppose we have a plant watering system that we would like to put together that includes both a "soil monitor" and a "water valve", 
we would use the soil monitor to determine when to trigger the water valve. Bots can't trigger actions of other bots, this can only be done
by a "non-bot" aka user, which is exactly how chain controlling is done. 

Chain controlling is simply a user("non-bot" client) that is 
analyzing the passive data of a select set of bots and determines when to trigger an action based on the results.

There is a service that is created for this purpose called the [ExternalController](https://github.com/House-of-IoT/ExternalController).
Please see the docs on details of setup.

# What how hard is it to setup the conditions and target actions
It is as simple as a config.json file that is generated by a command line prompted inputs.

# What do conditions look like?

```json
{device_name:"water_value", "active_status":True ,action:"open", conditions:[{bot_name:"soil_monitor",humidity:2}] }

```

The outer "bot_name" in the example above is the bot that will have a action executed if the "relations" are met.

In this case the ExternalController constantly requests passive data from the server, checks if one of the bots have a name 
of "soil_monitor" and checks if the "soil_monitor" has a humidity of 2.


If the *ALL* of the "conditions" are met then the "action" will be requested from the server.
